# 62. implement BigInt addition

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/add-BigInt-string

#

### Problem Description

Luckily we have [BigInt](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) in JavaScript so handle big numbers.

What if we need to do it by ourselves for older browsers?

You are asked to implement a string addition function, **with all non-negative integers in string**.

```js
add('999999999999999999', '1');
// '1000000000000000000'
```

Don't use BigInt directly, it is not our goal here.

#

### Understanding the problem

Given two non-negative numbers, `num1` and `num2` represented as string, we are asked to implement a function that is going to return the sum of the two numbers as a string. We are not allowed to convert the strings into the numbers to perform addition.

#

### Approach

We can add the two numbers digit by digit starting from the least significant digit. We would walk backwards through the two numbers at the same time with the help of two pointers. At each step, we would add the two digits that the two pointers are pointing at and insert the sum to the beginning of the resultant string. Since the sum of the two digits can be greater than or equal to `10`, we also need another variable to keep track of the carry. Therefore, instead of directly adding the sum of the two digits to our output string, we need to do the following:

1. First, we add the carry from the previous step to the sum.

2. Then, we compute the carry for the next step and 'pop' the last digit off of the sum. To do this, we can use math:

   ```js
   // Compute the carry
   carry = Math.floor((sum + previousCarry) / 10);

   // Pop the last digit off of the sum
   lastDigit = (sum + previousCarry) % 10;
   ```

3. Lastly, we add the last digit of the sum to the beginning of the resultant string.

When we have reached the beginning of both numbers, we need to check whether there is a carry from the last step. If that is the case, the carry needs to be added to the beginning of the resultant string before we return it. For instance, if the two numbers are `91` and `9`, when the loop terminates, the resultant string is going to be `00` and the carry is going to be `1`.

Since we are going to add a digit to the beginning of the resultant string and we are going to do this `max(num1.length, num2.length)` times, our algorithm would take O(N^2) time, where N is the maximum length of `num1` and `num2`. To optimize it, we could append the digits to the end of the resultant string and reverse the entire string before returning it. However, in most programming languages strings are immutable. That means every time we append a character to a string, a brand new string needs to be created, which is an O(N) operation. Calling `str += newChar` `N` times results in an O(N^2) time complexity ([In JavaScript, `+=` is optimized](https://josephmate.github.io/java/javascript/stringbuilder/2020/07/27/javascript-does-not-need-stringbuilder.html)). Therefore, a better way to collect the digits of the final sum is to use an array and store them in reverse order, `[last significant digit, ..., most significant digit]`, because inserting a value at the beginning of an array is an O(N) operation.

**Algorithm**

- Declare two pointers `p1` and `p2` and point them to the end of `num1` and `num2` respectively.

- Use a variable to keep track of the carry.

- Initialize an empty array to hold the result.

- Loop over the two numbers from the end to the beginning using the two pointers. The loop terminates when we reach the beginning of both numbers: `p1 >= 0 || p2 >= 0`.

  - Add `num1[p1]`, `num2[p2]` and the carry up and store the result in a variable `sum`. To handle the case where one of the pointers is out of bounds, before adding them up, we need to first check whether the pointer is greater than or equal to `0` and set the corresponding digit to `0` if that is the case.

  - Compute the carry using `Math.floor(sum / 10)`.

  - Get the last digit of the sum using `sum % 10`. Convert it to a string and push it into the resultant array.

- If the carry is greater than `0`, convert it to a string and push it into the resultant array.

- Reverse the resultant array. Join the reversed array into a string and return it.

### Implementation

```js
/**
 * @param {string} num1
 * @param {string} num2
 * @return {string}
 */
function add(num1, num2) {
  let p1 = num1.length - 1;
  let p2 = num2.length - 1;
  let carry = 0;
  const result = [];

  while (p1 >= 0 || p2 >= 0) {
    const digit1 = Number(num1[p1] ?? 0);
    const digit2 = Number(num2[p2] ?? 0);
    const sum = digit1 + digit2 + carry;

    carry = Math.floor(sum / 10);
    result.push(String(sum % 10));

    p1--;
    p2--;
  }

  if (carry > 0) result.push('1');

  return result.reverse().join('');
}
```

### Complexity Analysis

Let N be the length of the first input number and M be the length of the second input number.

- Time Complexity: O(max(N, M)).

- Space Complexity: O(max(N, M)).
