# 73. implement Observable fromEvent()

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/implement-Observable-fromEvent

#

### Problem Description

This is a follow-up on [57. create an Observable](https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/create-an-Observable).

Suppose you have solved [57. create an Observable](https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/create-an-Observable), here you are asked to implement a creation operator `fromEvent()`( for DOM Event)

From the [document](https://rxjs-dev.firebaseapp.com/api/index/function/fromEvent), `fromEvent()`

> Creates an Observable that emits events of a specific type coming from the given event target.

Simply speaking, it is a util to attach event listener in Observable fashion.

```js
const source = fromEvent(node, 'click');
source.subscribe((e) => console.log(e));
```

When `node` is clicked, the event is logged.

**Note**

1. Observable is already given for you, no need to create it.
2. the event listener removal is handled by [add()](https://rxjs-dev.firebaseapp.com/api/index/class/Subscription#add), which is beyond our scope here, you can ignore that.

#

### Understanding the problem

I am asked to write a function `fromEvent` which takes in three parameters. The first parameter is a DOM element. The second parameter is a string representing a event type. The third parameter is optional which is a Boolean that specifies whether the event should be executed in the capturing or bubbling phase. The function should attach a event listener to the given DOM element with the specified event type. It should returns an Observable, so that we can use `observable.subscribe(func)` to subscribe a function to the observable. The function will be invoked when the event gets fired, and it will receive the event object. The `Observable` is provided for me, and I don't need to handle the removal of a event listener.

#

### Approach

Since, the `fromEvent` will returns a Observable, so I need to define the callback function that the new `Observable` constructor will receive. The callback function is going to receive a subscriber object.

```js
function fromEvent(/* parameters */) {
  return new Observable((subscriber) => {});
}
```

The callback function will get executed when we call `observable.subscribe(func)`. So I should attach the event listener to the given node in the callback function.

```js
function fromEvent(element, eventName, capture = false) {
  return new Observable((subscriber) => {
    element.addEventListener(eventName, (e) => {}, capture);
  });
}
```

The function passed to `observable.subscribe(func)` will be wrapped by a decorator. In the callback function I can access that function with `subscriber.next`. It gets invoked when the event gets fired, so I need to call it in the event handler and pass in the event object.

```js
// ...
element.addEventListener(
  eventName,
  (e) => {
    subscriber.next(e);
  },
  capture
);
// ...
```

### Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {HTMLElement} element
 * @param {string} eventName
 * @param {boolean} capture
 * @return {Observable}
 */
function fromEvent(element, eventName, capture = false) {
  return new Observable((subscriber) => {
    element.addEventListener(
      eventName,
      (e) => {
        subscriber.next(e);
      },
      capture
    );
  });
}
```
