# 75. implement BigInt subtraction

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/implement-BigInt-subtraction

#

### Problem Description

Luckily we already have built-in support of [BigInt](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) in JavaScript, at least in some browsers.

```js
1000000000000000000000n - 999999999999999999999n;
// 1n
```

Suppose BigInt cannot be used, can you implement a string subtraction function by yourself?

```js
subtract('1000000000000000000000', '999999999999999999999');
// '1'
```

All input are valid **non-negative integer strings**, and the result is guaranteed to be non-negative.

#

### Understanding the problem

We are given two non-negative integers, `minuend` and `subtrahend` represented as string. We are asked to write a function that is going to return the difference of the two integers as a string.

The result is guaranteed to be non-negative, so it means `minuend` is for sure going to be greater than or equal to `subtrahend`.

We are not allowed to convert the input strings directly to numbers.

#

### Approach

We could solve the problem by subtracting the two integer strings digit by digit starting from the least significant digit and keeping track of the borrow from the previous step.

**Algorithm**

- Initialize a pointer `minuendIdx` to the end of `minuend` and a pointer `subtrahendIdx` to the end of `subtrahend`.

- Use a variable to remember the borrow from the previous subtraction. Initialize it to `0`.

- Initialize an empty array `result` that is going to hold the results of all the subtractions. The reason that we use an array rather than a string to store the results is because in most programming languages string is immutable, which means every time we append a character to a string, a brand new string needs to be created, which is an O(N) operation ([In JavaScript, `+=` is optimized](https://josephmate.github.io/java/javascript/stringbuilder/2020/07/27/javascript-does-not-need-stringbuilder.html). We are also going to store the results in reverse order: `[last significant digit, ..., most significant digit]`, since inserting a value at the beginning of an array takes O(N) time.

- Walk through the two integer strings simultaneously using the two pointers. The loop stops when we reach the beginning of `minuend`. This is because `minuend` is for sure going to be greater than or equal to `subtrahend`, which means the length of `subtrahend` can't be greater than the length of `minuend`.

  - Set `minuendDigit` to the digit from `minuend` at index `minuendIdx`. Subtract the previous borrow from `minuendDigit`.

  - Set `subtrahendDigit` to the digit from `subtrahend` at index `subtrahendIdx`. If `subtrahendIdx` has reached the beginning of `subtrahend`, set `subtrahendDigit` to `0`.

  - If `minuendDigit` is smaller than `subtrahendDigit`, add `10` to `minuendDigit`: `minuendDigit += 10`, and set borrow to `1`. Otherwise set borrow to `0`.

  - Subtract `subtrahendDigit` from `minuendDigit`. Push the result into the `result` array.

- Now we need to remove the "leading" zeros from the result if they are present. For example, if both `minuend` and `subtrahend` are `100`, the `result` array is going to be `[0, 0, 0]` when the loop terminates. We could keep removing the last number from the `result` array until the last number of the array is not equal to `0` or the `result` array contains only one element.

- Reverse the `result` array. Join the reversed array into a string and return it.

### Implementation

```js
/**
 * @param {string} minuend
 * @param {string} subtrahend
 * @return {string}
 */
function subtract(minuend, subtrahend) {
  let minuendIdx = minuend.length - 1;
  let subtrahendIdx = subtrahend.length - 1;
  const result = [];
  let borrow = 0;

  while (minuendIdx >= 0) {
    let minuendDigit = Number(minuend[minuendIdx]) - borrow;
    const subtrahendDigit = Number(subtrahend[subtrahendIdx] ?? 0);

    if (minuendDigit < subtrahendDigit) {
      borrow = 1;
      minuendDigit += 10;
    } else {
      borrow = 0;
    }

    result.push(minuendDigit - subtrahendDigit);

    minuendIdx--;
    subtrahendIdx--;
  }

  while (result[result.length - 1] === 0 && result.length > 1) {
    result.pop();
  }

  return result.reverse().join('');
}
```

### Complexity Analysis

Let N be the length of the first integer string.

- Time Complexity: O(N).

- Space Complexity: O(N).
