# 78. convert HEX color to RGBA

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/convert-HEX-color-to-RGBA

#

### Problem Description

Suppose you write some CSS code, you need to set [colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value). You can choose hexadecimal notation `#fff` or Functional notation `rgba(255,255,255,1)`.

Can you write a function to convert hexadecimal notation to functional notation?

```js
hexToRgb('#fff');
// 'rgba(255,255,255,1)'
```

1. Alpha channel should have **maximum 2 digits after decimal point, round up if needed**.
2. Don't forget to do input validation

#

### Understanding the problem

I am asked to write a function that converts hexadecimal color notation into rgba color notation. If the input does not contain the value that represents the alpha value of the color, the alpha value in the output should be `1`.

#

### Approach

- validate input.
  Hexadecimal color notation consists of a '#" symbol, followed by 6 characters/digits, or 3 characters/digits. The 3-digit color notation is a shorthand for the 6-digit notation, where duplicate digits for each color component is combined into one. The 6-digit notation represents an opaque color. If we want to set alpha transparency to the color, we need to append another two digits to the notation, which specifies transparency in percentage. If the two characters are same, then we can combine them into one. However, in browser, only 8-digit and 4-digit work.

  So first check if the string starts with '#' and check the number of the following digits. If the the '#' symbol is not followed by 3 or 4 or 6 or 8 digits, then it is not a valid input.

- Convert 3-digit notation into 6-digit notation or 4-digit notation into 8-digit notation, by copying each character next to each to other. After the conversion, if the number of digits is 6, append `'FF'` to it.

- Initialize an empty array to store the results.

- Loop over the string, process two digits at a time. At each iteration, convert the hexadecimal into decimal and append the result to the array. If the conversion fails, break out of the entire function, because it means the input string is invalid. If I am at index `6`, after the conversion, divide the result by `255` to get alpha value and round the result up to 2 digits after decimal points.

- Concatenate the elements in the array of results into string, separated by commas. Insert `'rgba(` at the beginning and a right parenthese at the end.

### Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {string} hex
 * @return {string}
 */
function hexToRgba(hex) {
  if (!validateInput(hex)) throw new Error('Invalid input.');

  let digits = hex.slice(1);
  if (digits.length === 3 || digits.length === 4) {
    digits = digits.replace(/\w/g, (digit) => digit + digit);
  }

  if (digits.length === 6) digits += 'FF';

  const rgbas = [];

  for (let idx = 0; idx < digits.length; idx += 2) {
    const hex = digits[idx] + digits[idx + 1];
    const decimal = parseInt(hex, 16);
    if (isNaN(decimal)) throw new Error('Invalid input.');

    const isAlpha = idx === 6;
    if (isAlpha) {
      rgbas.push(roundUpToTwoDecimalPlaces(decimal / 255));
      continue;
    }

    rgbas.push(decimal);
  }

  return 'rgba(' + rgbas.join(',') + ')';
}

function validateInput(hex) {
  if (typeof hex !== 'string' || !hex.startsWith('#')) {
    return false;
  }

  if (
    hex.length !== 4 &&
    hex.length !== 5 &&
    hex.length !== 7 &&
    hex.length !== 9
  ) {
    return false;
  }

  return true;
}

function roundUpToTwoDecimalPlaces(floatNumber) {
  return Math.round(floatNumber * 100) / 100;
}
```
