# 83. create an interval

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/create-an-interval

#

### Problem Description

You are asked to create a new `mySetInterval(a, b)` which has a different behavior from `window.setInterval`, the time between calls is a linear function, growing larger and larger `period = a + b * count`.

```js
let prev = Date.now();
const func = () => {
  const now = Date.now();
  console.log('roughly ', Date.now() - prev);
  prev = now;
};

const id = mySetInterval(func, 100, 200);

// roughly 100, 100 + 200 _ 0
// roughly 400, 100 + 200 _ 1
// roughly 900, 100 + 200 _ 2
// roughly 1600, 100 + 200 _ 3
// ....

myClearInterval(id); // stop the interval
```

1. Interface is `mySetInterval(delay, period)`, the first `delay` is used for the first call, and then `period` is used.
2. Because `window.setTimeout` and `window.setInterval` are not accurate in browser environment, they are replaced to other implementation when judging your code. They still have the same interface, and internally keep track of the timing for testing purpose.

Something like below will be used to do the test. (You don't need to read following code to accomplish this task)

```js
let currentTime = 0;

const run = (delay, period, clearAt) => {
  currentTime = 0;
  pipeline.length = 0;

  const logs = [];

  const func = () => {
    logs.push(currentTime);
  };

  mySetInterval(func, delay, period);
  if (clearAt !== undefined) {
    setTimeout(() => {
      myClearInterval(id);
    }, clearAt);
  }

  while (pipeline.length > 0 && calls.length < 5) {
    const [time, callback] = pipeline.shift();
    currentTime = time;
    callback();
  }

  return calls;
};

expect(run(100, 200)).toEqual([100, 400, 900, 1600, 2500]);
expect(run(100, 200, 450)).toEqual([100, 400]);
expect(run(100, 200, 50)).toEqual([]);
```

#

### Understanding the problem

I am asked to write my own version of `setInterval(func, delay)`. `mySetInterval()` will take in three parameters, `func`, `delay` and `period`. Unlike the built-in `setInterval(func, delay)`, which executes the specified callback function in an constant interval of time, the interval of `mySetInterval()` will increase: `interval = delay + period * count`. In addition, I also need to implement the `clearInterval()` function which stops the interval created by `mySetInterval(func, delay, period)`.

#

### Approach

Since I need to change the interval while the interval timer is running and I cannot use a while loop since it will block the execution of other code, I would use `setTimeout()` to implement `mySetInterval()`.

I am going to first initialize a variable called `multiplier` that is going to count the number of intervals so far; initially, set it to `0`. Then I am going to define a function named `run` that is going to be the callback function for the `setTimeout()`. Within `run`, I would execute the provided callback function and increase `multiplier` by one, then I am going to call `setTimeout()`, passing in the function `run()` and the increased timeout as arguments to mimic an interval timer. To set the interval timer, in `mySetInterval()` I am going to call `setTimeout()`, passing in the function `run()` and the initial amount of time to delay.

`mySetInterval()` is going to return the id of an interval timer so that the timer can be stopped by `myClearInterval(id)`. However, the problem is that I need to run multiple nested `setTimeout()`s and there is no way to return the id of a nested timeout timer when `mySetInterval()` gets called. To clear an existing interval timer, all I need to do is cancel the timeout timer that is currently set, so I could probably create a global variable that is going to keep track of the id of the latest timeout timer, and in `myClearInterval(id)`, I would just call `clearTimeout()` passing in the global variable. However, with this approach, `myClearInterval()` will not work correctly when two or more interval timers are set. So a better way of doing this would be store the ids in a `Map` where the key is the id of the initial timeout timer and the value is going to be the id of a nested timeout timer that is currently set. In `myClearInterval()`, I am going to call `clearTimeout()` and pass in the specified `id`, then I will check if the `id` is already a key in the `Map`, if it is, then it means that a nested timeout timer is set, so I also need to cancel that timeout timer.

### Solution

```js
const timerIds = new Map();

/**
 * @param {Function} func
 * @param {number} delay
 * @param {number} period
 * @return {number}
 */
function mySetInterval(func, delay, period) {
  let multiplier = 0;

  const initialTimerId = setTimeout(run, delay + period * multiplier);

  function run() {
    func();
    multiplier++;
    const nextTimerId = setTimeout(run, delay + period * multiplier);
    timerIds.set(initialTimerId, nextTimerId);
  }

  return initialTimerId;
}

/**
 * @param { number } id
 */
function myClearInterval(id) {
  clearTimeout(id);
  if (timerIds.has(id)) {
    clearTimeout(timerIds.get(id));
    timerIds.delete(id);
  }
}
```
