# 85. implement `_.get()`

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/implement-lodash-get

#

### Problem Description

[\_.get(object, path, [defaultValue])](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#get) is a handy method to help retrieving data from an arbitrary object. if the resolved value from `path` is `undefined`, `defaultValue` is returned.

Can you create your own `get()`?

```js
const obj = {
  a: {
    b: {
      c: [1, 2, 3],
    },
  },
};

get(obj, 'a.b.c'); // [1,2,3]
get(obj, 'a.b.c.0'); // 1
get(obj, 'a.b.c[1]'); // 2
get(obj, ['a', 'b', 'c', '2']); // 3
get(obj, 'a.b.c[3]'); // undefined
get(obj, 'a.c', 'bfe'); // 'bfe'
```

#

### Understanding the problem

I am asked to write a function called `get` that will take in an source object, a `path` parameter which is either a string or an array of strings, and optionally a `defaultValue` parameter, which defaults to `undefined`. The function `get()` is going to retrieve the value at the specified path of the provided object.

#

### Approach

First I am going to check if the `path` is a string, if it is, then split the string into an array with `'.'` or `'['` or `']'` as separator. Then I would traverse the source object based on the path to get the value. I could traverse the source object either iteratively or recursively. For both approach, I would initialize a pointer that is going to keep track of the property name I am currently at in the path array.

To traverse the source object recursively, I would define a function that would be my actual recursive function. It will take in the current source I need to traverse, which is initially the source object, the path array, a pointer, which is initially set to 0, and also the `defaultValue`. I will call the recursive function on each property name in the path array, recursively traversing the source object, until either the property doesn't exist in the source object or I eventually reach the very end of the path array. In the recursive function, I am going to check if the index is equal to the length of the path array, if it is, either return the current source, which is the source passed to the recursive function in the previous step, or the `defaultValue` if the current source is `undefined`; then I am going to make sure that the current source is not `undefined`, if it is, return the `defaultValue`; these are both of my base cases in the recursive function. Then I will get the current property name that is what the pointer currently points at in the path array, set the current source to the value of the current property, increase the pointer by one, so make the pointer point to the next property name, and then call the recursive function passing in the updated arguments.

To traverse the source object iteratively, I would initialize a variable that is going to keep track of the current source I need to traverse; initially, set it to the source object. I will also initialize a pointer to 0. While the current source is not `undefined`, meaning the previous property is a key in the source object, and the pointer is less than the length of the path array, meaning I still have properties to look through, get the property name that the current pointer points at in the path array, retrieve the value of that property in the current source and update the current source to that value. Once I get out of the while loop, return the current source or the `defaultValue` if the current source is `undefined`.

🙋‍♀️🙋‍♂️ In both approach, I didn't handle the case in which `path` is an empty array.

### Recursive Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {object} source
 * @param {string | string[]} path
 * @param {any} [defaultValue]
 * @return {any}
 */
function get(source, path, defaultValue = undefined) {
  path = Array.isArray(path) ? path : path.split(/\.|\[|\]/);

  if (path[path.length - 1] === '') path.pop();

  return getImpl(source, path, 0, defaultValue);
}

function getImpl(source, path, idx, defaultValue) {
  if (path.length === 0 || source === undefined) {
    return defaultValue;
  }

  if (idx === path.length) return source || defaultValue;

  const property = path[idx];
  return getImpl(source[property], path, idx + 1, defaultValue);
}
```

### Iterative Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {object} source
 * @param {string | string[]} path
 * @param {any} [defaultValue]
 * @return {any}
 */
function get(source, path, defaultValue = undefined) {
  path = Array.isArray(path) ? path : path.split(/\.|\[|\]/);

  if (path[path.length - 1] === '') path.pop();

  if (path.length === 0) return defaultValue;

  let currentSource = source;
  let idx = 0;

  while (currentSource && idx < path.length) {
    const property = path[idx];
    currentSource = currentSource[property];
    idx++;
  }

  return currentSource || defaultValue;
}
```

### Iterative Solution with Reduce

```js
/**
 * @param {object} source
 * @param {string | string[]} path
 * @param {any} [defaultValue]
 * @return {any}
 */
function get(source, path, defaultValue = undefined) {
  path = Array.isArray(path) ? path : path.split(/\.|\[|\]/);

  if (path[path.length - 1] === '') path.pop();

  if (path.length === 0) return defaultValue;

  const value = path.reduce(
    (currentSource, property) => currentSource[property],
    source
  );
  return value || defaultValue;
}
```
