# 86. Generate Fibonacci Number

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/fibonacci-number

#

### Problem Description

```js
0
1
1 = 0 + 1
2 = 1 + 1
3 = 1 + 2
5 = 2 + 3
8 = 3 + 5
13 = 5 + 8
....

[0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, ...]
```

Given 2 initial numbers, we can generate a sequence by adding the sum of last two numbers as a new element.

This is [Fibonacci number](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number).

You are asked to create a `fib(n)` function, which generate the n-th Fibonacci number.

What is the time & space cost of your solution?

#

### Understanding the problem

Given a non-negative integer `n`, I am asked to write a function that is going to return the nth Fibonacci number in the Fibonacci sequence. In this problem, zero based indexing will be used.

#

### Iterative Approach

I am going to initialize an array that is going to keep track of the last two Fibonacci numbers. Initially, it is going to contain the first two numbers of the Fibonacci sequence, which are `0` and `1`. To get the next Fibonacci number, I am going to add the previous two Fibonacci numbers up. I will also create a variable named `counter` that is going to keep track of how many new Fibonacci numbers I have calculated. Since I already have the first two numbers of the Fibonacci sequence, initialize the `counter` to 2. While the `counter` is not greater than the integer `n`, keep calculating the next Fibonacci number and keep updating the previous two Fibonacci numbers as well as the counter. Once I get out of the while loop, return the last Fibonacci number if `n` is greater than 0, otherwise return the first number of the Fibonacci sequence.

### Time & Space Complexity

O(n) time | O(1) space, where n is the input number.

### Iterative Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {number} n - non-negative integer
 * @return {number}
 */
function fib(n) {
  const lastTwoFibs = [0, 1];
  let counter = 2;
  while (counter <= n) {
    const nextFib = lastTwoFibs[0] + lastTwoFibs[1];
    lastTwoFibs[0] = lastTwoFibs[1];
    lastTwoFibs[1] = nextFib;
    counter++;
  }
  return n === 0 ? lastTwoFibs[0] : lastTwoFibs[1];
}
```
