# 87. longest substring with unique characters

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/longest-substring-with-unique-characters

#

### Problem Description

Given a string, please find the **longest substring that has no repeated characters**.

If there are multiple result, any one substring is fine.

```js
longestUniqueSubstr('aaaaa');
// 'a'
longestUniqueSubstr('abcabc');
// 'abc', or 'bca', or 'cab'
longestUniqueSubstr('a12#2');
// 'a12#'
```

_Follow-up_

What is the time & space cost of your solution ? Could you do it better?

#

### Understanding the problem

Given a string, I am asked to write a function that is going to return the longest substring that doesn't contain any duplicate characters. If there are multiple such substrings, I only need to return one of them.

#

### Approach

My initial thought was that I could solve this problem using two pointers approach. However, this approach doesn't work when the input string is `'a12#2'`, because with this approach I can only detect the duplicate of the first character in the input string.

Instead, I would initialize a `Map` that is going to keep track of the characters that I've seen so far, where the keys are the characters and each value is the index of each character. In addition, I am going to initialize a variable `substrStart` to `0` that is going to keep track of the substrStart index of the current substring that has no duplicate characters, and a variable `longestSubstrStart` to `0` that is going to keep track of the substrStart index of the longest substring by far as well as a variable `longestSubstrEnd` to `1` that is going to keep track of the end index of the current longest substring. I would then traverse through the input string. For each character, first I am going to check if it is already a key in the `Map`, which means check if I've already seen the character:

- If it is not in the `Map`, store it and its index into the `Map`, calculate the length of the current substring by subtracting its index with the `substrStart` plus one, if the result is greater than the length of the current longest substring, which is `longestSubstrEnd` minus `longestSubstrStart`, then update the `longestSubstrEnd` as well as the `longestSubstrStart` if it is not equal to the `substrStart`.

- Otherwise, retrieve the previous index of the character from the `Map`, update the `substrStart` to be equal to the previous index plus one. Then compare the length of the current substring to the length of current longest substring, if the current substring is longer than the longest substring, update the `longestSubstrStart` and the `longestSubstrEnd`.

Once I reach the very end of the input string, return the substring that starts at the `longestSubstrStart` and ends at the `longestSubstrEnd`, `longestSubstrEnd` is exclusive.

🙋‍♀️🙋‍♂️ Although this approach passed all of the test cases, it will fail when the input string is, for instance, `'thecatinthecat'`.

Suppose I am currently at index `9` in the example string. The character at index `9` is `h`, which I've already seen at index `1`. The start index of the current substring is `6`. If I simply set `2` as the start index of the new substring, then the new substring will contain duplicate `t`s.

```
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
t h e c a t i n t h  e  c  a  t
                  i

substrStart = 6
seenChars = {
  t: 7,
  h: 1,
  e: 2,
  c: 3,
  a: 4,
  i: 5,
  n: 6,
}
```

To solve this issue, I need to compare the previous index of a duplicate character plus one to the start index of the current substring and only update the start index if the previous index plus one is greater than the start index.

### Time & Space Complexity

O(n) time | O(min(n, d)) space, where n is the number of characters in the input string and d is the number of distinct characters in the input string.

For instance, if the input string is `'aaab11#b#cd'`, then d is going to be equal to 6, because we only need to store each character in our `Map` once.

### Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {string} str
 * @return {string}
 */
function longestUniqueSubstr(str) {
  let longestSubstrStart = 0;
  let longestSubstrEnd = 1;
  let substrStart = 0;
  const seenChars = new Map();

  for (let idx = 0; idx < str.length; idx++) {
    const char = str[idx];

    if (seenChars.has(char)) {
      const prevIdx = seenChars.get(char);
      substrStart = Math.max(substrStart, prevIdx + 1);
    }

    seenChars.set(char, idx);

    const currSubstrLen = idx - substrStart + 1;
    const currLongestSubstrLen = longestSubstrEnd - longestSubstrStart;
    if (currSubstrLen > currLongestSubstrLen) {
      longestSubstrEnd = idx + 1;
      if (substrStart !== longestSubstrStart) {
        longestSubstrStart = substrStart;
      }
    }
  }

  return str.slice(longestSubstrStart, longestSubstrEnd);
}
```
