# 88. support negative Array index in JavaScript

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/support-negative-Array-index

#

### Problem Description

Python supports negative list index , while JavaScript doesn't.

Can you write a wrapper function to make **negative array index** possible?

```js
const originalArr = [1, 2, 3];
const arr = wrap(originalArr);

arr[0]; // 1
arr[1]; // 2
arr[2]; // 3
arr[3]; // undefined
arr[-1]; // 3
arr[-2]; // 2
arr[-3]; // 1
arr[-4]; // undefined
```

All methods on `arr` should be applied to the original array, which means

<!--prettier-ignore-->
```js
arr.push(4);
arr[3] // 4
originalArr[3] // 4

arr.shift();
arr[0] // 2
originalArr[0] // 2

arr.bfe = 'bfe';
originalArr.bfe // 'bfe'

arr[-1] = 5;
arr // [2,3,5]
originalArr // [2,3,5]

originalArr[2] = 6;
arr // [2,3,6]
originalArr // [2,3,6]
```

#

### Understanding the problem

I am asked to write a function that is going to wrap the input array to make it support negative array index, and return the result, which should be also an array.

```js
const arr = wrap([1, 2, 3]);

Array.isArray(arr); // true
```

It should support the bracket notation, meaning we can update an element at a specific index using bracket notation:

- If an element in the original array is updated using bracket notation, the change should also reflect in the wrapped array, and vice versa.
- Placing an element at a negative index that is out of bounds of the input array should end up in an error, for instance:

  ```js
  const arr = wrap([1, 2, 3]);

  arr[-5] = 'bfe'; // Error
  ```

In addition, all Array methods, i.e., `Array.prototype.push()` and `Array.prototype.shift()`, should be applied to the original array.

#

### Approach

To solve the problem, I am going to create a `Proxy` for the original array and return the proxy.

When we create a `Proxy` for an object or an array, any changes in the original one will reflect in the proxy:

```js
const obj = {
  a: 1,
  b: 2,
};

const objProxy = new Proxy(obj, {});
obj.c = 3;
console.log(objProxy.c); // 3
```

In addition, since a `Proxy` is an undetectable wrapper around an object/array, if we create a `Proxy` for an array, the `Proxy` is also going to be an array:

```js
const arr = [1, 2, 3];

const arrProxy = new Proxy(arr, {});
console.log(Array.isArray(arrProxy)); // true
```

I would implement a `get()` handler to intercept attempts to access an element at a specific index in the input array and would also provide a `set()` handler to intercept attempts to update an element at a specific index.

In the `get(target, prop, receiver)` handler, I will first make sure that the `prop` can be converted to a number, because besides indices an array has other properties, i.e. `.push`. If the `prop` cannot convert to a number, then simply return the `prop`'s value. Otherwise, check if the `prop` is negative, if it is, get the corresponding positive index by adding the `prop` to the length of the target and then return the element at that positive index; otherwise, simply return the element.

The `set(target, prop, value, receiver)` is going to be similar to the `get()` handler, however, rather than returning the element, I am going to update the `prop`'s value to the new value. In addition, after successfully converting the `prop` to a number and getting the corresponding positive index, I am going to make sure the index is within bounds. If the resulting positive index is greater than the length of the target, since I need to support the `Array,prototype.push` method, or is still negative, then it means the index is out of bounds, so throw an error.

### Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {any[]} arr
 * @returns {?} - sorry no type hint for this
 */
function wrap(arr) {
  const handler = {
    get(target, prop, receiver) {
      prop = getPositiveIdx(target.length, prop);

      return Reflect.get(target, prop, receiver);
    },
    set(target, prop, value, receiver) {
      prop = getPositiveIdx(target.length, prop);

      const idxIsOutOfBounds = prop > arr.length || prop < 0;
      if (idxIsOutOfBounds) {
        throw new Error('Array Index Overflow');
      }

      Reflect.set(target, prop, value, receiver);
      return true;
    },
  };

  return new Proxy(arr, handler);
}

function getPositiveIdx(arrLength, propName) {
  try {
    let idx = Number(propName);
    if (isNaN(idx)) return propName;

    return idx < 0 ? arrLength + idx : idx;
  } catch (err) {
    return propName;
  }
}
```
