# 47. Promise Order II

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/quiz/promise-order-II

#

### Problem Description

What does the code snippet below output by `console.log`?

```js
console.log(1);

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log(2);
}, 10);

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log(3);
}, 0);

new Promise((_, reject) => {
  console.log(4);
  reject(5);
  console.log(6);
})
  .then(() => console.log(7))
  .catch(() => console.log(8))
  .then(() => console.log(9))
  .catch(() => console.log(10))
  .then(() => console.log(11))
  .then(console.log)
  .finally(() => console.log(12));

console.log(13);
```

#

### Answer

```
1
4
6
13
8
9
11
undefined
12
3
2
```

### Explanation

- The executor function passed to the `Promise` constructor is executed immediately. Since the callbacks in `setTimeout()` and `then()` will not be executed until the call stack is empty, the console logs `4` after `1`.
- Although a promise can only be resolved/rejected once, code below `reject(value)` will be still executed. Therefore, console logs `6` after `4`.
- `then` handlers and `catch` handler are queued in microtask queue. Immediately after every macrotask, the JavaScript engine will execute all tasks from the microtask queue, before running any other macrotasks.
  - Since the promise is rejected, `console.log(7)` is not executed, and the console outputs `8` from the `catch` handler after `13`.
  - The `catch()` method returns a promise, therefore the onFulfilled handler `() => console.log(9)` runs and the console logs `9`.
  - The `then()` method also returns a promise. Since the promise is resolved with a `undefined` value, `() => console.log(10)` from the `catch` handler is skipped, and the console logs `11`.
  - When the `then` onFulfilled handler gets executed, it receives the resolved promise's value as argument. Since the promise returned by `then(() => console.log(11))` is resolved with an `undefined` value, the `console.log` from `then(console.log)` receives `undefined` as argument and outputs `undefined`.
- The callback function passed to `finally()` will be executed when a promise is settled, no matter whether the promise is resolved or rejected. There `12` is logged.
- After all tasks from the microtask queue are executed, the callbacks from the `setTimeout()` run.
