## 64. auto-retry Promise on rejection

### Problem

https://bigfrontend.dev/problem/retry-promise-on-rejection

### Problem Description

For a web application, fetching API data is a common task.

But the API calls might fail because of Network problems. Usually we could show a screen for Network Error and ask users to retry.

One approach to handle this is **auto retry when network error occurs**.

You are asked to create a `fetchWithAutoRetry(fetcher, count)`, which automatically fetch again when error happens, until the maximum count is met.

For the problem here, there is no need to detect network error, you can just retry on all promise rejections.

### Understanding the problem

Write a function that retries fetch upon failure up to N times. The function takes two inputs, a callback function that fetches API data and returns a promise, and an integer representing maximum retry count.
### Approach

Fetching API data is asynchronous, so the function needs to return a promise. Within the promise, call the `fetcher` function, if no error occurs, `resolve` the result, otherwise call the `fetcher` function again and decrease the `maximumRetryCount` by 1 until it is equal to 0. To execute the `fetcher` function and handle the eventual completion or failure again, declare a function in which the `fetcher` function is executed, when error happens and the maximum count is not reached, call the function again. 

### Solution

```js
/**
 * @param {() => Promise<any>} fetcher
 * @param {number} maximumRetryCount
 * @return {Promise<any>}
 */
function fetchWithAutoRetry(fetcher, maximumRetryCount) {
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    const retry = () => {
      fetcher().then((result) => {
        resolve(result);
      }).catch((error) => {
        if (maximumRetryCount > 0) {
          maximumRetryCount--;
          retry();
        } else {
          reject(error);
        }
      })
    };

    retry();
  })
}
```